So in the last lecture we started with NCR X. Now when I take it to the next level right now we have
one global producer DIAK producer where we managed the UI now will soon have multiple reducer one for
detraining related state one for all related state and one for DUI related state.
Basically just as we have services right now.
So now my goal is to already start splitting that up into multiple reducers.
So lets go to our shared folder and there are now at my you dog reducer dot TS file in here.
I now want to create a reducer thats just focused on the is loading state and in that app reducer where
we are currently doing that I soon want to start merging all the different producers which will eventually
have.
Now let's take a look at how this looks like in that you are producer.
Again first of all define the state of this slice of this single reducer and your state is still going
to be loading which is a Boolean just like that.
So this doesn't change now.
Besides this interface here of course I also want to have my initial state so initial state will be
off the type of the states here and theres a constant where I will said is bull is loading it's loading
to false initially.
So they were not loading at the start and then I'll export my reducer function.
This will be named you or I a producer for example.
And it's a function where I get the state or the initial state.
If we got no existing state and action which by the way is of type action something you don't import
from angular firestorm but from at ngi our X store now as function of course should return a state.
As you learned it this is what we did before.
This is what we will continue doing.
So here I will again add a switch statement and check my action type and if it's what now previously
we used start loading and so on.
Now typing that as a string here is error prone because we're not only using it in the reducer we're
also using it in the places where we dispatch the action like in the off service.
What better to store it in a constant which we can then simply import so add an additional file in the
shared folder DUI actions start.
TS file in there ultimately export a couple of constants which are name for example you or I start loading
or just start loading actually which will have a value.
And now that's also kind of a convention you senior official docs were in square brackets I have to
redo username and this is totally up to you.
You can put any string here and I'll name this start loading and I'll do the same of course for stopping
so stop loading will get the stop loading string string here.
So with that I got these two exports in my action file and now we have these constants which we can
simply import so we can never mistype.
We can also improve as a bit more and export action creators so to say or Klaas's our actions as classes
so that we get all the completion support and types support in general.
So what we can do is we can export a class here in the actions file which names start loading in Pascal
case which will implement which will implement the action we can import from Engy or extort.
So let's quickly do that let's import action from at ngi our X store like that and now we have a class
where I'll add a read only type property.
Keep in mind an action needs to have a type that's required by our interface we're implementing.
So this type will then we start loading in this case.
So the value of this constant So this string in the end and the same can be done for stopping.
Now you might be wondering what the sense of does is it makes even more sense once we start having payloads.
But here already we will get better completion support.
So what I'll do now is I'll export a custom type the type keyword is Buraidah by typescript you just
create your own type you can use which will name you by actions which is either start loading or stop
loading.
So we will be able to just import UI actions and automatically complete to start or stop loading.
You'll see it in action a second.
So with that edit Let's go back to the reducer file here.
So you reducers and now let's check for directions differently.
Let's add a couple of imports at the top and let's import you right actions from.
And now it's just from the DOD actions file with that and the reducer at the actually get is actually
of Type II actions.
We know that because we're in the UI reducer and now therefore here the case can all be imported from
the UI actions that is either start loading or stop loading.
So the two constants we defined.
So now we have case start loading in which case I want to return a new object whereas it is loading
to true
or we have a narrow case of course where I have stopped loading and when we return
is loading set to false and I'll also add a default case where I just return the state does required
for any attractions we might dispatch which don't fit you we're dead or dead pattern.
So with that we're having the producer.
Now we'll add even more expert and Yukon's then which I'll name get is loading which will simply be
a function Erol function which gets my state and which returns state is loading notice will become handy
in a second.
So this is.
You reduce her now.
Now the goal now is to use that you reducer in our application a wide reducer.
So let's go back to the app reducer.
Now in here I will change it.
This is now a function or a to me a file which should not define its own reducers but simply merge the
various reducers.
Our application will eventually have.
So I'll get rid of the export function and I'll get rid of everything actually.
And I'll start from scratch.
All.
First of all import everything as from UI.
And at the convention we're importing from the UI reducers So we typically name it like this from.
And now this is from the shared folder and they are from the UI reducer of course.
I now want to define my application wide state I'll export it.
So export the interface state and this will actually have a UI part.
Right now it's the only part but later will have multiple reducers and therefore multiple states slices
you could say and this is coming from UI.
And it's this state with a fine and there so any UI reducer we should export our state by exploiting
that interface and importing in India producer.
We kind of inform our global store about how it's actually going to look like how its state is going
to look like.
With that we define how our application wide state is going to look.
But now I also need to group all my reducers I'll do this in a new constant which I'll named reducers
and this is now actually of a special type which we can import from NCR x.
So import something from at Engy our X store and that something is the so-called action reducer map.
It's a map of all the reducers we have and Yant map to state slices.
So reducers is of type accurate use for map which in turn is a generic type which is a type state.
So we have embedded user per slice of our application white state that is the pattern you should follow.
This is not just an object.
And in that object all map UI since that is my name here in St..
You I from you I so from you guys does import from you I produce or read you I read you said Excuse
me.
So the function indebt you I would use her file.
So the actual reduced her function off that state slice.
This is now our map our grouped reducer the actual app reducer you could say we can now create a utility
function which will name get you by state where I use a special feature which I can also import from
NCR X store called create feature selector selectors are a helper functions that make it easier for
us to pull information from our state.
So here all name discreate create selector used this function.
It's a generic function and needs to know which kind of state it works with.
So we use from you will I and this state that it's defined in their.
And then we target as a string do you slice of our store.
So what this will do is it will allow us to simply call this function and get quick access to this state
as returned by disarrayed use or in our global app state.
And this is especially handy if you've got more UI slices of course than just one more state slices
I mean than just one.
This gives you quick access and spares you the hassle of having to access state DOT UI and so on.
So this is the feature selector.
Now we can also give us a utility function that quickly gives us the is loading state for this name
and get is loading.
And this is using a number function the Create selector function.
Create feature selector is used if you're targeting the state or devalues returned by Suppe reducers
you could say now we're creating a utility function that will take this constant and therefore runs
directly in Yabrud use term.
It's called create selector and create selector takes two arguments at least the first argument is get
you a nice state.
So the result of this function you don't execute it though you just pass a pointer to that function.
This will be behind the scenes then triggered this function and give you the object as returned by you
or you by state.
Remember this will be essentially an object in this forum an object with a is loading property.
The second argument you passed to create selector is then telling this function what to do with the
returned object.
And here we want to simply pull out.
D is loading state.
Now we get a utility function for dead end.
It's defined in the UI reducer.
This get is loading.
It takes a state as an input a state of this format and then gives us the result of D is loading property
while a state of this format is returned by gets you by state.
So now we can simply exit from UI and call get is loading or to be precise.
We don't call it we all just pass a reference.
So behind the scenes when this is executed this will give us DeWyze state and then from that state give
us the is loading property and this is useful for accessing it in the components what you will do in
the next lectures as well as this patching.